TASK 9 (VARIANT A): INTERFACE ISOLATION

1. Final tunnel configuration:
The tunnel was configured using the following socat command:
socat openssl-listen:7005,bind=127.0.0.1,cert=../credentials/tls/orion.pem,verify=0,fork tcp4:127.0.0.1:6005

2. Which interface is exposed:
The `bind=127.0.0.1` parameter ensures that the TLS tunnel on port 7005 is exposed ONLY on the local loopback interface. 
By checking with `ss -ltnp`, we can verify that the listener is bound strictly to `127.0.0.1:7005` rather than `0.0.0.0:7005` 
(which would mean all interfaces). 

3. Why reducing network exposure improves security:
If a service listens on all interfaces (`0.0.0.0`), anyone on the local network (or even the internet, 
if port forwarding is configured) can attempt to connect to it. By binding the service strictly to `127.0.0.1`, 
we drastically reduce the attack surface. Only processes running on the exact same physical or virtual machine can even see that port 7005 is open. 
It acts as an unbreakable, network-level firewall.

4. When binding only to localhost may be insufficient in a real mission environment:
In a real space mission, Mission Control (the operators sending commands) and the satellite ground station (the receiver) 
are almost never the same physical machine. Therefore, binding only to `localhost` would completely break the command channel, 
as remote operators wouldn't be able to connect. In reality, the service must listen on an external interface, 
but it must be heavily protected using Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), strict IP whitelisting (firewalls), 
and Mutual TLS (mTLS) to ensure only authorized endpoints can communicate.

FINAL REFLECTION

1. What was possible in the insecure command channel?
Anyone could send commands to the satellite. A hacker could easily read the messages, change them, 
or send completely fake commands (like SHUTDOWN) because the server trusted everyone and checked nothing.

2. Which attacks were blocked by authorization?
It stopped users with low permissions (like normal operators) from running dangerous admin commands. 

3. Which attacks were blocked by authentication?
It stopped unknown strangers from logging in. It also stopped users from lying about who they are 
(for example, Alice couldn't pretend to be an admin, because her password only matched the operator role).

4. Which attacks were blocked by HMAC?
It stopped hackers from changing the message text or creating fake messages. Because the hacker doesn't know the secret password, 
they can't create the mathematical signature. If the signature is missing or wrong, the server rejects the message.

5. Which attacks were blocked by replay protection?
It stopped hackers from copying a valid, old command and sending it again. Thanks to the unique COMMAND_ID, 
the server remembers what it already processed and ignores duplicates.

6. Why was a safety gate needed for critical commands?
To prevent human errors and accidents. Even a real, logged-in admin can make a mistake and type the wrong command. 
The safety gate forces them to stop, read the warning, and confirm the action before the satellite actually turns off.

7. Why does HMAC not provide confidentiality?
HMAC only creates a signature at the end of the message to prove it is real. 
The message itself (like the user name or the command) is still sent as normal, readable text. 
Anyone watching the network can still read it.

8. Why does TLS not replace command authorization?
TLS only creates a safe, hidden tunnel for the data so no one outside can read it. But once the message leaves the tunnel, 
the server still needs to know if the person sending the command actually has the right permissions to do it. 
TLS secures the road, but authorization checks the driver's license.

9. What additional protections would be required in a real command channel?
In a real space mission, both the satellite and the ground station should have to prove who they are before they even start talking. 
Also, passwords and secret keys should be changed very often and kept in physically safe microchips so they cannot be stolen.
